PRODUCT NAME: DECnet/SNA VMS APPC/LU6.2	                      SPD 26.88.05
              Programming Interface, Version 2.1

DESCRIPTION

The DECnet/SNA VMS Advanced Program-to-Program Communications/LU6.2
Programming Interface (APPC) is a layered software product that allows
user-written applications running on suitably configured VMS or MicroVMS
systems either within a DECnet network or running VMS/SNA software to
exchange messages with cooperating applications in an IBM (r) host. The APPC
software exists in the VMS system as a shareable image. Access between the
cooperating DIGITAL and IBM applications is via the DECnet/SNA Gateway or
VMS/SNA software. 

The APPC product is a set of subroutines which are called by VMS or MicroVMS
programs which act as Logical Unit 6.2 (LU6.2) transaction application
programs. These subroutines allow a VMS or MicroVMS transaction application
to: 

^  Allocate and deallocate LU6.2 basic and mapped conversations

^  Send and receive data

^  Request confirmation and confirm transactions

^  Send error information

^  Define local LU names and Transaction Program names

^  Supply program initialization parameters

^  Supply session-level security and inbound conversation-level security

^  Allow outbound conversation allocation

^  Provide the ability for an SNA session to be initiated from the IBM system

Features

The APPC product provides features to assist the user in writing and
executing the VMS transaction program.  The APPC product performs the SNA
communications function on the programmer's behalf, allowing him to
concentrate on solving his application problem rather than having to bother
about the underlying communications medium. Because the APPC product performs
all the SNA functions on the user's behalf, users are not required to have a
knowledge of SNA. 

The verbs comprising the APPC product are defined to make the individual
subroutine calls correspond to the verbs defined in the IBM manual, SNA
Transaction Programmers Reference Manual for Logical Unit 6.2. This makes it
easier for IBM application level programmers to code VMS or MicroVMS LU6.2
programs. 

The APPC product implements both the basic and mapped conversation verb set
using the same procedure calls.  The VMS programmer may choose which type of
conversation is desired by specifying the appropriate symbolic code in the
TYPE parameter of the SNALU62$ALLOCATE procedure. 

Both sets of verbs can be synchronous or asynchronous.  Asynchronous
completion of verbs allows for multi-threaded applications to use the LU6.2
interface without blockage. 

The following sections describe the supported and unsupported verbs. 

Supported Verbs

The following basic conversation verbs are supported:

^  Allocate

^  Confirm

^  Confirmed

^  Deallocate

^  Flush

^  Get_attributes

^  Get_type

^  Post_on_receipt

^  Prepare_to_receive

^  Receive_and_wait

^  Receive_immediate

^  Request_to_send

^  Send_data

^  Send_error

^  Wait

The following mapped conversation verbs are supported:

^  Get_type

^  MC_Allocate

^  MC_Confirm

^  MC_Confirmed

^  MC_Deallocate

^  MC_Flush

^  MC_Get_attributes

^  MC_Post_on_receipt

^  MC_Prepare_to_receive

^  MC_Receive_immediate

^  MC_Receive_and_wait

^  MC_Request_to_send

^  MC_Send_data

^  MC_Send_error

^  MC_Wait

The following control operator verbs are supported:

^  Activate_session

^  Define_remote

^  Define_tp

^  Delete

Refer to the APPC product documentation for complete descriptions of the use
of these verbs. 

Unsupported Verbs

The following basic conversation verbs are not supported:

^  Backout

^  Syncpt

^  Test

The following mapped conversation verbs are not supported:

^  Backout

^  Syncpt

^  MC_Test

The APPC product supports single sessions only; parallel sessions are not
supported. The following control operator verbs are not needed: 

^  Change_session_limit

^  Deactivate_session

^  Define_local_lu

^  Define_mode

^  Display_local_lu

^  Display_mode

^  Display_remote_lu

^  Display_tp

^  Initialize_session_limit

^  Process_session_limit

^  Reset_session_limit

User Interface

Users of the DECnet/SNA VMS APPC/LU6.2 product should be experienced VMS or
MicroVMS application programmers. They can use any of the VMS or MicroVMS
programming languages which conform to the VMS Calling Standard to create
application programs which interact with application programs on an IBM
system. The user documentation provides example programs written in the
following languages: 

^  MACRO-32

^  VAX ADA

^  VAX BASIC

^  VAX BLISS-32

^  VAX C

^  VAX COBOL

^  VAX FORTRAN

^  VAX PASCAL

^  VAX PL/I

The users of the APPC product are not required to have a knowledge of SNA.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System Support
Addendum (SSA 26.88.05-x). 

OPTIONAL HARDWARE

None

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

In a DECnet/SNA Gateway or VMS/SNA environment:

^  VMS or MicroVMS Operating Systems

In a DECnet/SNA Gateway environment: 

^  DECnet-VAX

In a VMS/SNA environment:

^  VMS/SNA

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE*

^  DECnet/SNA VMS Gateway Management
^  DECnet/SNA VMS Gateway Management for DECSA

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required versions 
  of Prerequisite/Optional software (SSA 26.88.05-x).

PREREQUISITE SUPPORT

A Network Profile and a DECnet Customer Support Plan (where applicable)
covering all intended VMS or MicroVMS nodes that wish to access the APPC
Programming Interface must be prepared jointly by DIGITAL and the customer. 

In order for APPC/LU6.2 to be DIGITAL supported, the customer must have a
DIGITAL supported DECnet/SNA Gateway or VMS/SNA configuration. 

To have a DIGITAL supported DECnet/SNA Gateway configuration, purchase of
DIGITAL's Gateway Orientation/Installation Service is REQUIRED in conjunction
with the customer's first purchase of the Gateway. Refer to the DECnet/SNA
Gateway SPDs (SPD 30.15.xx, SPD 29.C6.xx, SPD 29.76.xx) for further details. 

To have a DIGITAL supported VMS/SNA system configuration, purchase of
DIGITAL's VMS/SNA Orientation/Installation Service is REQUIRED in conjunction
with with the customer's first purchase of the VMS/SNA software.  Refer to
VMS/SNA (SPD 27.01.xx) for further details. 

INSTALLATION

DIGITAL requires that a customer's first purchase of this software product
include DIGITAL Installation Services.  These services provide for
installation of the software product by an experienced DIGITAL Software
Specialist. 

For subsequent purchases of this product, only experienced customers should
attempt installation. DIGITAL recommends that all other customers purchase
DIGITAL's Installation Services. 

Customer Responsibilities

Before installation of the software, the customer must:

^  Previously have installed all requisite hardware including terminals.

^  Obtain, install, and demonstrate as operational any modems and other 
   equipment and facilities necessary to interface to DIGITAL's 
   communications equipment.

^  Demonstrate equivalency of operation for modems other than Bell System 
   201C, 208A or 209A, AT&T 2596, 2556, Dataphone II (2096A, Digital
   2500, or equivalent) type modems or, in Europe, PTT approved modems.

^  Have generated, to DIGITAL's satisfaction, any necessary IBM host 
   software that will be communicating with the DECnet/SNA Gateway 
   or VMS/SNA and the APPC Programming Interface.

^  Make available for a reasonable period of time, as mutually agreed by 
   DIGITAL and the customer, all hardware, communications facilities, and 
   terminals that are to be used during installation.

Delays caused by any failure to meet these responsibilities will be charged
at the prevailing rate for time and materials. 

Successful use of this product requires that:

^  The customer must be prepared to work with both DIGITAL and IBM systems 
   personnel to coordinate the pre-installation activities.

^  The customer should be capable of modifying IBM component generation 
   parameters to support the DECnet/SNA Gateway or VMS/SNA and the APPC
   Programming Interface.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-022A*-**
Software Media: QA-022A*-**
Software Documentation QA-022AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-022A*-**

* Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available licenses,
  services and media refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office. 

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility. License
units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis. 

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License
Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System documentation set. 

SOFTWARE WARRANTY
 
Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum of
this SPD. 

WARRANTY LIMITATIONS 

IBM Supported Configurations 

This software has been tested and is warranted against IBM System/370
(includes 30xx and 43xx series) class processor systems with the following
IBM software. While this software may function correctly with other IBM
software and equipment and with software other than that supported by IBM,
DIGITAL cannot offer its standard warranty for this software unless it has
been tested with such equipment and software configurations. 

The following list shows the configurations with which the software has been
tested and is warranted: 

____________________________________________________________
Software Product	         Version	   Release
____________________________________________________________
MVS/SP	                            1	             3.6
MVS/SP (a.k.a. MVS/XA)              2                1.3
				    2		     1.5
				    2		     1.7
				    2                2.0

CICS/OS/VS	                    1	             6.1
                                    1                7
___________________________________________________________

VSE/SP                              2                1.6

CICS/DOS/VSE                        1                6.0
___________________________________________________________


SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more
information contact your local DIGITAL office. 


(r) IBM is a registered trademark of IBM Corporation

September 1988
BH-ET90F-TE


