PRODUCT NAME: IEX-VMS-Driver, Version 4.0                      SPD 26.30.04
              Device Driver for VMS and MicroVMS

DESCRIPTION

The IEX-VMS-Driver allows programs written in MACRO-32 and higher level
languages (such as VAX FORTRAN, VAX BASIC, VAX PASCAL) to communicate through
the IEU11-A or IEQ11-A with devices containing an IEC 625-1 or IEEE Std. 488
interface. This communication is implemented through a choice of direct QIO
calls or a set of subroutines callable from high level languages. 

Note:  In the following description the term IEX11 stands for the IEU11-A and/or 
       IEQ11-A interface.  The IEU11-A supports the VMS UNIBUS machines and 
       the IEQ11-A supports the MicroVMS Q-Bus machines.
 
The IEX11-A interface is a bit-parallel byte-serial device which can perform
transfers in either program interrupt or DMA (direct memory access) mode. The
former is used for transferring commands and addresses, while the latter is
used for transferring data. DMA significantly reduces processor loading
during the transfer of long data buffers. 
 
The IEX11-A interface contains two independent IEC/IEEE bus controllers, also
known as General Purpose Interface Buses (GPIB). These two controllers may be
connected to the same or to different IEC/IEEE buses. Up to 15 devices may be
attached to each IEC/IEEE bus. 

The IEX11 is most commonly used as Controller-in-Charge, but it can also be
used when another device is Controller-in-Charge. The Controller-in-Charge
directs the sequence of information on the bus. 

When the IEX11 acts as Controller-in-Charge it may request status information
from other devices through serial and parallel polling. When the IEX11 is not
Controller-in-Charge, it can be polled in either fashion to provide status
information. 

Features

The IEX-VMS-DRIVER supports the following IEC/IEEE hardware capabilities:
 
^  Controller (C1,C2,C3,C4,C5)

^  Talker and Extended Talker (T5,TE5)

^  Listener and Extended Listener (L3,LE3)

^  Automatic Source Handshake (SH1)

^  Automatic Acceptor Handshake (AH1)

^  Service Request (SR1)

^  Remote/Local (RL1)

^  Parallel Poll (PP1,PP2)

^  Device Clear (DC1)

^  Device Trigger (DT1)

The IEX-VMS-DRIVER supports QIO requests to perform the following software
functions:  
 
^  Initialize Unit

^  Write Data

^  Read Data

^  Send one IEC/IEEE bus command*

^  Send a string of IEC/IEEE bus commands*

^  Request Service**

^  Issue a Serial Poll*

^  Configure devices for Parallel Polls*

^  Load Parallel Poll Register**

^  Perform a Parallel Poll*

^  Go to Controller-Active-State (CACS)*

^  Go to Controller-Standby-State (CSBS)*

^  Pass Control*

^  Sense Mode

^  Set Mode

^  Enable Event Recognition

^  Recognize Events

The event recognition facility allows the user's process to specify the
events on the IEC/IEEE instrument bus which the interface should detect. The
interface is capable of detecting the occurrence of the following events: 
 
^  Service Request*

^  Addressed as Listener**

^  Addressed as Talker**

^  Deaddressed**

^  Addressed as Extended Listener**

^  Addressed as Extended Talker**

^  Device Clear**

^  Device Trigger**

^  Remote/Local Change**

^  Parallel Poll Configure**

^  Parallel Poll Unconfigure**

^  Interface Clear

*  Those functions that can only be used by the Controller-in-Charge 
** Those functions used only by a device that is not Controller-in-Charge 

All IEC/IEEE bus commands are issued through a process request and all data
is transferred through the DMA mechanism. When the IEX-VMS-DRIVER is
processing a read data request, there are three ways in which it detects the
end of the data transfer: 

Byte Count Overflow - Transfer terminates after the specified number of bytes
have been read. 

EOI Termination - Transfer terminates if, during the reception of a byte, the
EOI line is true. 
 
Match Character - Transfer terminates after the Termination specified match
character has been consecutively received the specified number of times. 
 
A device exerciser is provided to verify that the IEX-VMS-DRIVER is correctly
installed and to aid the user in testing his application. When the two bus
controllers are connected with a loop back cable (see IEU11-A/IEQ11-A User's
Guide) the device exerciser can be run with command files delivered with the
exerciser. These command files demonstrate all features of the driver and the
IEC/IEEE bus interface functions. The device exerciser can also be used in a
dialogue mode by the user to test his devices. The commands to the exerciser
are directly converted into QIOs to the driver. Using the exerciser in the
dialogue mode, the user can quickly determine the set of QIOs required for
his application. 
 
The IEX-VMS-DRIVER may be programmed in two ways:
 
VMS and MicroVMS QIO System Service - The VMS QIO requests allow direct
access to the driver. These requests can be issued in higher level languages
(such as VAX FORTRAN, VAX BASIC, VAX PASCAL and MACRO-32). This is the most
flexible way of programming the IEX11 device, but requires that the user be
familiar with the QIO calling procedures. 

Simplified User Interface - This is a package of subroutines which can be
called from higher level languages (such as VAX FORTRAN and VAX BASIC) to
perform the following functions: 
 
IESTRT - Initialize an interface

IEPOLL - Setup for Serial polling

IESEND - Send data

IERECV - Receive data

IERQSV - Request service

IECMD - Perform a bus control function

IEWFE - Wait for IEC/IEEE bus event

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation  configuration as specified in the System Support
Addendum (SSA 26.30.04-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

VMS Operating System or MicroVMS Operating System

Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 26.30.04-x) for availability and
required versions of prerequisite software. 

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-519A*-**
Software Media: QA-519A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-519AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-519A*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available licenses, 
  services and media refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY 

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum. 

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information about DIGITAL's licensing
terms and policies,contact your local DIGITAL office. 

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.XX) or the License
Management Manual of VMS Operating System documentation set. 

For more information about DIGITAL's Licensing terms and policies, contact
your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES 

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more information
contact your local DIGITAL office. 


December 1988
AE-BW75E-TE



