PRODUCT NAME:  FORTRAN IV/VAX to RSX, Version 2.8              SPD 25.17.11
               PDP-11 Cross Compiler

DESCRIPTION

FORTRAN IV is an extended FORTRAN implementation based upon the former
American National Standard (ANSI) FORTRAN, X3.9-1966.  The compiler operates
under the VAX-11 RSX layered product on VMS systems.  Compiled programs can
be transported to supported RSX-11M-PLUS and RSX-11M.  In addition, programs
that do not utilize virtual array support can be task built under VAX-11 RSX.
The resulting task image may be executed on RSX-11M, RSX-11M-PLUS or RSX-11S
systems or the VMS System under VAX-11 RSX.  Programs utilizing virtual
arrays must be task built and executed on the target PDP-11 that is
configured with appropriate memory management hardware and operating system
support. 

The FORTRAN IV language includes the following extensions to the 1966 ANSI 
standard:

^  General expressions allowed in all meaningful contexts

^  Mixed-mode arithmetic

^  BYTE data type for character manipulation

^  ENCODE, DECODE statements

^  PRINT, TYPE, and ACCEPT input/output statements

^  Direct-access, unformatted, input/output DEFINE FILE statement

^  Comments allowed at the end of each source line

^  PROGRAM statement

^  OPEN and CLOSE file access control statements

^  List-directed input/output

Additionally, virtual arrays are supported on target systems with memory
management directives.  Virtual arrays are memory-resident and require enough
main memory to contain all elements of all arrays. 

The PDP-11 FORTRAN IV compiler is a fast compiler.  Compiler options allow
program size versus execution speed (threaded code versus in-line code)
tradeoffs.  FORTRAN IV compiler optimizations include: 

^  Common sub-expression elimination

^  Local code tailoring

^  Array vectoring

^  Optional in-line code generation for integer and logical operations

FORTRAN IV compiler can optionally generate in-line code for the following
instruction sets for execution on the target system: 

^  EIS
^  FPU

In addition, FORTRAN-IV can generate code for FIS and EAE, but these
instructions sets are no longer supported by the compiler. 

Note:  Only code generated for the EIS instruction set is supported for 
       execution on VMS.

MACRO-11 assembly language subroutines can be called from FORTRAN IV
programs. 

Object Time System

FORTRAN IV includes a set of object modules, called the Object Time System
(OTS), that are selectively linked with compiler-produced object modules to
produce an executable program. 

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX configuration as specified in the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.17.11-x).

EIS hardware is required for virtual array support on RSX target systems.

OPTIONAL HARDWARE

When executed on remote RSX-11M, RSX-11M-PLUS, or RSX-11S target systems,
FORTRAN IV generated code can be selected to support the standard hardware
options. 

The FORTRAN IV OTS additionally supports the FP11 floating point processor. 

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

VMS Operating System

VAX-11 RSX

*  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.17.11-x) for availability and 
   required versions of Prerequisite software

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-107A*-**
Software Media: QA-107A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-107AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-107A*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available licenses,
  services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum of
this SPD.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office. 

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility. License
units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis. 

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License
Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System documentation set. 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more
information contact your local DIGITAL office. 



November 1988
AE-H115L-TE



