IEX-VMS-Driver, Version 4.1                            SPD 26.30.05

DESCRIPTION

The IEX-VMS-Driver allows programs written in MACRO-32 and higher level 
languages (such as VAX FORTRAN, VAX BASIC, VAX PASCAL) to communicate through 
the IEU11-A or IEQ11-A with devices containing an IEC 625-1 or IEEE Std. 488 
interface. This communication is implemented through a choice of direct QIO 
calls or a set of subroutines callable from high level languages.

Note:	In the following description the term IEX11 stands for the IEU11-A 
        and/or IEQ11-A interface.  The IEU11-A supports the VMS UNIBUS 
        machines and the IEQ11-A supports the MicroVMS Q-Bus machines.

The IEX11-A interface is a bit-parallel byte-serial device which can 
perform transfers in either program interrupt or DMA (Direct Memory Access) 
mode. The former is used for transferring commands and addresses, while the 
latter is used for transferring data. DMA significantly reduces processor 
loading during the transfer of long data buffers.

The IEX11-A interface contains two independent IEC/IEEE bus controllers, 
also known as General Purpose Interface Buses (GPIB). These two controllers 
may be connected to the same or to different IEC/IEEE buses. Up to 15 
devices may be attached to each IEC/IEEE bus.

The IEX11 is most commonly used as Controller-in-Charge, but it can also be 
used when another device is Controller-in-Charge. The Controller-in-Charge 
directs the sequence of information on the bus.

When the IEX11 acts as Controller-in-Charge it may request status 
information from other devices through serial and parallel polling. When 
the IEX11 is not Controller-in-Charge, it can be polled in either fashion 
to provide status information.

Features

The IEX-VMS-Driver supports the following IEC/IEEE hardware capabilities:

oo   Controller (C1,C2,C3,C4,C5)

oo   Talker and Extended Talker (T5,TE5)

oo   Listener and Extended Listener (L3,LE3)

oo   Automatic Source Handshake (SH1)

oo   Automatic Acceptor Handshake (AH1)

oo   Service Request (SR1)

oo   Remote/Local (RL1)

oo   Parallel Poll (PP1,PP2)

oo   Device Clear (DC1)

oo   Device Trigger (DT1)

The IEX-VMS-Driver supports QIO requests to perform the following software 
functions:

oo   Initialize Unit

oo   Write Data

oo   Read Data

oo   Send one IEC/IEEE bus command*

oo   Send a string of IEC/IEEE bus commands*

oo   Request Service**

oo   Issue a Serial Poll*

oo   Configure devices for Parallel Polls*

oo   Load Parallel Poll Register**

oo   Perform a Parallel Poll*

oo   Go to Controller-Active-State (CACS)*

oo   Go to Controller-Standby-State (CSBS)*

oo   Pass Control*

oo   Sense Mode

oo   Set Mode

oo   Enable Event Recognition

oo   Recognize Events

The event recognition facility allows the user's process to specify the 
events on the IEC/IEEE instrument bus which the interface should detect. 
The interface is capable of detecting the occurrence of the following 
events:

oo   Service Request*

oo   Addressed as Listener**

oo   Addressed as Talker**

oo   Deaddressed**

oo   Addressed as Extended Listener**

oo   Addressed as Extended Talker**

oo   Device Clear**

oo   Device Trigger**

oo   Remote/Local Change**

oo   Parallel Poll Configure**

oo   Parallel Poll Unconfigure**

oo   Interface Clear

*   Those functions that can only be used by the Controller-in-Charge

**  Those functions used only by a device that is not Controller-in-Charge

All IEC/IEEE bus commands are issued through a process request and all data 
is transferred through the DMA mechanism. When the IEX-VMS-Driver is 
processing a read data request, there are three ways in which it detects 
the end of the data transfer:

oo   Byte Count Overflow - Transfer terminates after the specified number of 
    bytes have been read.

oo   EOI Termination - Transfer terminates if, during the reception of a 
    byte, the EOI line is true.

oo   Match Character - Transfer terminates after the termination specified 
    match character has been consecutively received the specified number of 
    times.

A device exerciser is provided to verify that the IEX-VMS-Driver is 
correctly installed and to aid the user in testing his application. When 
the two bus controllers are connected with a loop back cable (see the 
IEU11-A/IEQ11-A User's Guide), the device exerciser can be run with command 
files delivered with the exerciser. These command files demonstrate all 
features of the driver and the IEC/IEEE bus interface functions. The device 
exerciser can also be used in a dialogue mode by the user to test his 
devices. The commands to the exerciser are directly converted into QIOs to 
the driver. Using the exerciser in the dialogue mode, the user can quickly 
determine the set of QIOs required for his application.

The IEX-VMS-Driver may be programmed in two ways:

oo   VMS and MicroVMS QIO System Service - The VMS QIO requests allow direct 
    access to the driver. These requests can be issued in higher level 
    languages (such as VAX FORTRAN, VAX BASIC, VAX PASCAL and MACRO-32). 
    This is the most flexible way of programming the IEX11 device, but 
    requires that the user be familiar with the QIO calling procedures.

oo   Simplified User Interface - This is a package of subroutines which can 
    be called from higher level languages (such as VAX FORTRAN and VAX 
    BASIC) to perform the following functions:

    IESTRT     -   Initialize an interface

    IEPOLL     -   Setup for Serial polling

    IESEND     -   Send data

    IERECV     -   Receive data

    IERQSV     -   Request service

    IECMD      -   Perform a bus control function

    IEWFE      -   Wait for IEC/IEEE bus event

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation  configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 26.30.05-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

VMS Operating System or MicroVMS Operating System

Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required versions 
of prerequisite/optional software.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-519A*-**
Software Media: QA-519A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-519AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-519A*-**

*   Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
    licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License 
Management Manual of VMS Operating System documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's Licensing terms and policies, contact 
your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD.

July 1989
AE-BW75F-TE
