PRODUCT NAME:  VAX PrintServer Supporting Host          SPD 27.68.04
               Software, Version 3.1 

DESCRIPTION

The PrintServer Supporting Host Software is a layered product that 
enables suitably configured VMS or MicroVMS systems within a DECnet 
Ethernet network to provide support functions for the PrintServer 20, 
PrintServer 40, and PrintServer 40 Plus.

The Supporting Host software consists of the following components:

^ The management component includes support for PrintServer management, 
  down-line loading of PrintServer software and remote storage of event 
  log files and the PrintServer configuration database.  
       
^ The PrintServer component which is downline loaded into the PrintServer 
  20, 40 or 40 Plus, and includes distribution services, console services 
  (local server management for the PrintServer 40 and 40 Plus, and local 
  panel services for the PrintServer 20), and the PostScriptRO 
  interpreter.  The interpreter processes PostScript commands and 
  generates imaging data for the printer controller.

One Supporting Host system can support multiple PrintServers on the same 
Ethernet, and there may be multiple supporting hosts on the same 
Ethernet. However, only one supporting host can be active for any one 
PrintServer at any time. 

VAX PrintServer Client Software (SPD 27.67.xx), PrintServer DECnet Client 
Software for ULTRIX (SPD 30.87.xx), and PrintServer Client Software for 
ULTRIX (SPD 30.86.xx) are companion products to this software.  

Features 

PostScript
  
The PostScript language's page description capabilities include the 
following features, which may be used in any combination:
  
^ Arbitrary shapes constructed from straight lines, arcs, and cubic 
  curves; such shapes may self-intersect and contain disconnected 
  sections and holes.
  
^ Painting primitives that permit a shape to be outlined with lines of 
  any thickness, filled with any gray shade, or used as a clipping path 
  to crop any other graphics.
  
^ Text fully integrated with graphics.  Text characters are treated as 
  graphical shapes that may be operated on by any PostScript graphics 
  operator.

^ Sampled images derived from natural sources or generated synthetically.  
  The PostScript graphics model allows sampled images at any resolution 
  and with a variety of dynamic ranges, and it provides a number of 
  facilities to control the rendering of images on the PrintServer.
  
^ A general coordinate system facility that supports all combinations of 
  linear transformations including translation, scaling, rotation, 
  reflection, and skewing.  These transformations apply uniformly to all 
  elements of a page description, including text, graphical shapes, and 
  sampled images.

PrintServer Management

PrintServer management services are available for the PrintServer 20, 
PrintServer 40, and PrintServer 40 Plus through a menu interface at  
selected terminals on the Supporting Host or at the local PrintServer 
console for the PrintServer 40 and PrintServer 40 Plus.  The management 
services enable the system manager to monitor and control the functioning 
of the PrintServer.  There are two types of management functions, 
privileged and unprivileged. To access the privileged functions a 
password must be entered.  

Unprivileged management functions include:

^ Show printer status

^ Show PrintServer characteristics

^ Show job defaults

^ Show queued jobs

^ Show active job characteristics
  
Privileged management functions include:

^ Enable/disable continuous job mode

^ Show printer counters

^ Set job defaults

^ Set PrintServer location

^ Load/modify/save PrintServer configuration database

^ Enable/disable display of operator messages on remote console

^ Select and show supporting host

^ Enable/disable acceptance of new jobs 

^ Abort jobs 

^ Enable/disable event logging

Event Logging

The types of events that are logged by the PrintServer range from 
successful completion of jobs to fatal errors.  These events are always 
displayed on the local console (for the PrintServer 40 and 40 Plus) or 
the front panel (for the PrintServer 20) and can optionally be displayed 
on a remote server management terminal.  These events can also be 
recorded in an event log file on the Supporting Host.  A separate event 
log file can be maintained for each PrintServer that is managed by the 
Supporting Host software.
  
Down-line Load PrintServer Image

The Supporting Host Software down-line loads the PrintServer images upon 
receipt of a load request from a PrintServer.  In the event multiple 
systems on the Ethernet are running Supporting Host Software (and are 
enabled to service boot requests), the first system to respond to a 
PrintServer's load request will down-line load the PrintServer image.  
The host that loads the PrintServer is designated as its Supporting Host. 

Backup Supporting Host

To provide redundancy in the event of a failure of the primary Supporting 
Host system, a second system can be loaded with the Supporting Host 
software and designated as a backup Supporting Host. This system would be 
activated by the system manager as the Supporting Host system only in the 
event of a failure of the primary supporting host system. 

PrintServer Component
  
The PrintServer Component is the software that is down-line loaded to and 
runs in the PrintServer.  This software consists of the following parts: 
  
^ Distribution Software which receives print and control data from Client 
  systems or a Supporting Host system and passes the data to the Imaging 
  Software.
  
^ Imaging Software interprets data from the Distribution Software, builds 
  the corresponding bit maps, and sends them to the print engine. It also 
  passes any system messages from the print engine or itself, to the 
  Distribution Software to be returned to the appropriate Client and/or 
  Supporting Host system.  The imaging software includes an interpreter 
  based on the PostScript Page Description Language and twenty-nine 
  resident typefaces. The twenty-nine resident typefaces are as follows:
  
  - Courier
  - Courier Oblique
  - Courier Bold
  - Courier Bold Oblique
  
  - TimesRO F

Roman
  - Times Bold
  - Times Italic
  - Times Bold Italic
  
  - HelveticaRO
  - Helvetica Oblique
  - Helvetica Bold
  - Helvetica Bold Oblique
  
  - ITC Avant Garde GothicRO Book
  - ITC Avant Garde Gothic Book Oblique
  - ITC Avant Garde Gothic Demi
  - ITC Avant Garde Gothic Demi Oblique
  
  - New Century Schoolbook
  - New Century Schoolbook Italic
  - New Century Schoolbook Bold
  - New Century Schoolbook Bold Italic
  									 
  - ITC Lubalin Graph Book
  - ITC Lubalin Graph Book Oblique
  - ITC Lubalin Graph Demi
  - ITC Lubalin Graph Demi Oblique
  
  - ITC Souvenir Light
  - ITC Souvenir Light Italic
  - ITC Souvenir Demi							 
  - ITC Souvenir Demi Italic
  									 
  - Symbol/Math
  
Management Services is a menu-based user interface providing PrintServer 
management at the PrintServer 40 and 40 Plus console.  All of the 
management services are also available from any terminal on a supporting 
host. 

The PrintServer 20 has local panel services providing PrintServer 
management messages and information.  The message files are provided in 
English as well as in French, German, Durch, Swedish, and Norwegian.

INSTALLATION

Only experienced customers should attempt installation of this software 
product. DIGITAL recommends that all other customers purchase DIGITAL's 
Installation Services.  These services provide for the installation of 
the software product and PrintServer hardware by an experienced DIGITAL 
Specialist. 

Customer Responsibilities
    
Before installation of the software, the customer must:
    
^ Previously have installed all requisite software and hardware

^ Obtain, install and demonstrate as operational any equipment and 
  facilities necessary to interface to DIGITAL's communication equipment
    
^ Make available for a reasonable period of time, as mutually agreed upon 
  by DIGITAL and the customer, all hardware, communication facilities and 
  terminals that are to be used during installation

^ Supply to DIGITAL all of the information necessary for installation of 
  the software as described in the PrintServer Site Preparation Guide

Installation of PrintServer Supporting Host software will consist of the 
following:
    
^ Verification that the installation information in the PrintServer Site 
  Preparation Guide is complete
    
^ Verification that a complete set of PrintServer Supporting Host 
  Software media and documentation has been received
    
^ Verification that all hardware and software prerequisites have been met 
  and the equipment is operational
    
^ Installation of the PrintServer Supporting Host Software on one system  
  (the PrintServer Supporting Host and PrintServer Client software may be 
  installed on the same or separate system)
    
^ Reporting the PrintServer Ethernet hardware address to the customer
    
^ Down-line loading the PrintServer software to the PrintServer hardware
    
^ Verification that the PrintServer system has been correctly installed 
  by running the Installation Verification Procedure
  
Should a DIGITAL Specialist be required to modify the previously 
installed software parameters, a time and materials charge will apply.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 27.68.04-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

VMS Operating System or MicroVMS Operating System

DECnet-VAX

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required 
  versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 27.68.04-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-798A*-**
Software Media: QA-798A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-798AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT798A*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
  licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

The license to use this software is included with each PrintServer.  The 
license gives you the right to use the software on a single CPU or 
equipment configuration and on a single PrintServer.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available.   For more information on 
these or other services, please contact your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty 
Addendum of this SPD. 

    The DIGITAL Logo is a registered trademark of Digital Equipment Corporation.

    PrintServer, PrintServer 20, PrintServer 40 and PrintServer Plus are 
    registered trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

    VAX, VMS, MicroVAX, MicroVMS, VAXstation, VAXserver and DECnet are 
    trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

    Times and Helvitica are registered trademarks of Allied Corp.
    ITC Avant Garde Gothic, ITC Lubalin Graph and ITC Souvenir are 
    registered trademarks of International Typeface Corp.


