PRODUCT NAME:  VAX PrintServer Client Software,        SPD 27.67.04
               Version 3.0 

DESCRIPTION

The PrintServerRO Client Software is a layered product that enables suitably 
configured VMS or MicroVMS systems within a DECnet Ethernet network to access 
the PrintServer 20RO, PrintServer 40RO, and PrintServer 40 PlusRO. F
Tektronix is a registered trademark of Tektronix, Inc.
PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe, Inc.
F

The Client software consists of the following components:

^ A print symbiont to process print requests from one or more PrintServer 
  printer queues. 

^ Distribution software to transmit the request and associated data over 
  the Ethernet to a remote PrintServer via DECnet.

^ Translators to convert ANSI Text and Sixel Graphics, ReGIS, and 
  Tektronix RO 4010/4014 files into the PostScript RO language.

^ A series of PostScript tools for creator software support. These 
  include a PostScript error handler, Font Metric Files and Font Encoding 
  Vectors for the ISO Latin Alphabet Number 1 (ISO 8859/1) and DIGITAL 
  Multi-national Character Set for all of the built-in PostScript fonts.

The PrintServer Client software must be installed on each system that 
will be providing distributed printing services to its users via a 
PrintServer 20, PrintServer 40, or PrintServer 40 Plus.

A system running the PrintServer Client software can transmit print 
requests to any PrintServer 20, PrintServer 40, or PrintServer 40 Plus on 
the network that is defined in its network database.  A maximum of 16 
clients can simultaneously access a PrintServer with only one client 
active at one time. 

VAX PrintServer Supporting Host Software (SPD 27.68.xx) is a companion 
product to this software.  

Features

Print Symbiont

The /PARAMETERS qualifier in the PRINT command is used to pass 
PrintServer specific parameters to the print symbiont for processing.  
These parameters are as follows: 

^ Data_Type - Specifies the type of data in the print job being sent to 
  the printer.  If the Data_Type is other than PostScript, the print 
  symbiont will call one of the supplied translators (ANSI text and Sixel 
  Graphics, ReGIS, or Tektronix) to convert the data to PostScript prior 
  to sending it to the PrintServer.

^ Input_Tray - Selects the printer input tray that will supply the paper 
  or media for this job.

^ Output_Tray - Selects the printer output tray where the printed output 
  will be deposited.

^ Messages - Specifies the disposition of messages generated by the print 
  job.

^ Page_Limit - Specifies the first and last logical pages to be printed 
  for the job.
        
^ Page_Orientation - Specifies the orientation of printed output on the 
  page (portrait or landscape).  This parameter is ignored when Data_Type 
  is PostScript unless Number_Up is specified.

^ Page_Size - Specifies the size of the logical pages being printed. This 
  parameter is ignored if Data_Type is PostScript.
        
^ Sheet_Size - Specifies the physical size of the sheets to be printed. 
  This parameter will cause the appropriate input tray to be selected.
        
^ Sheet_Count - Specifies the number of times each sheet is to be printed 
  at the PrintServer.

^ Layup_Definition - Specifies the name of a file that contains all of 
  the page layup features (Borders, Margins, Margin Alternation, Pages 
  per Sheet, First Page, Page Order and Page Grid) except Number_Up.

^ Number_Up - Specifies the maximum number of pages that can be printed 
  on one side of a sheet.

^ Sides - Controls the number of sides printed per sheet on the 
  PrintServer 20.  It also controls print-time conditional layout related 
  to 2-sided printing when the creator supports this feature;  that is, 
  it selects whether the layout of a page is simplex, duplex, or tumble.

The /SETUP qualifier may be used to send specified modules from a device 
control library to the printer.  These modules may be encoded in the 
native data syntax of the printer (PostScript), or they may be encoded in 
the data syntax of the file(s), being printed (PostScript or ANSI only);  
the symbiont will pass the modules through the ANSI translator if 
necessary.

The print symbiont also supplies the following accounting information for 
each print job:  sheets of paper printed, Number of RMS Gets to all the 
user's files in the print job and Number of QIO Writes over the network 
to the PrintServer.

Translators  

Translator software allows users to print documents on the PrintServer 
with graphic protocols other than PostScript, the native language of the 
PrintServer 20, PrintServer 40, and PrintServer 40 Plus by translating 
the designated protocol into PostScript. 

The translators are invoked by the print symbiont at print time through 
the /PARAMETERS switch of the PRINT command or by submission to a 
translator specific queue. 
  
The translators provided convert the following data types into 
PostScript: 
  
^ ANSI text and Sixel graphics compatible with the LN03 excluding support 
  for font cartridges 
  
^ ReGIS compatible with the VT240  

^ Tektronix 4010/4014 compatible with VT240

PostScript is a device-independent, page description language that has 
the ability to describe the appearance of text, images, and graphic 
material on the printed  page. 
    
PostScript Tools

The tools consist of the following:
  
A PostScript error handler which prints the last partial page of output 
as well as information to help identify the error.  This information 
includes the error name, the PostScript operator that encountered the 
error, the operand stack, and the graphics state of the machine at the 
time of the error. 

A series of ASCII-encoded Font Metric Files that contain information 
necessary for application programs to format text.  The Font Metric Files 
consist of four sections that describe different general properties of a 
font.  These sections include a global section that pertains to the font 
as a whole; a character metrics section that consists of information such 
as character widths;  a kerning data section that consists of information 
regarding different types of kerning;  and a composite character section 
containing information for forming character composites such as accented 
letters.  The kerning section and composite character sections are 
optional and may not be present for a given font. 

Font Encoding vectors for the ISO Latin Alphabet Number 1 (ISO 8859/1) 
and DIGITAL Multinational Character Set are provided for all of the 
built-in fonts. 

INSTALLATION

Only experienced customers should attempt installation of this software 
product.  DIGITAL recommends that all other customers purchase DIGITAL's 
Installation Services.  These services provide for the installation of 
the software product and the PrintServer 20, 40 and 40 Plus hardware by 
an experienced DIGITAL Specialist. 

Customer Responsibilities
    
Before installation of the software, the customer must:

^ Previously have installed all prerequisite software and hardware

^ Obtain, install and demonstrate as operational any equipment and 
  facilities necessary to interface to DIGITAL's communication equipment
    
^ Make available for a reasonable period of time, as mutually agreed upon 
  by DIGITAL and the customer, all hardware, communication facilities and 
  terminals that are to be used during installation
    
^ Supply to DIGITAL all of the information necessary for installation of 
  the software (e.g. as described in the PrintServer 40 Series Site 
  Preparation Guide)
    
Installation of PrintServer Client Software will consist of the 
following:
    
^ Verification that the installation information in the PrintServer Site 
  Preparation Guide is complete for the PrintServer 40 series of printers
    
^ Verification that a complete set of PrintServer Client Software media 
  and documentation has been received
    
^ Verification that all hardware and software prerequisites have been met 
  and the equipment is operational
    
^ Installation of the PrintServer Client Software on one system (the 
  PrintServer Supporting  Host and PrintServer Client Software may be 
  installed on the same or separate system)

^ The optional establishment of print queues for the three supplied 
  translators and PostScript on the PrintServer Client system
    
^ Modification of the VMS start-up files to automate the start-up of 
  print queues
    
^ Modification of the DECnet databases to add the PrintServer node name 
  and address
    
^ Verification that the PrintServer Client Software has been correctly 
  installed by running the Installation Verification Program
    
Should a DIGITAL Specialist be required to modify the previously 
installed software parameters, a time and materials charge will apply. 

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 27.67.04-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

VMS Operating System or MicroVMS Operating System

DECnet-VAX

VAX PrintServer Supporting Host Software

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required 
  versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 27.67.04-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-797A*-**
Software Media: QA-797A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-797AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-797A*-**

* Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available 
  licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

The license to use this software is included with a PrintServer.  The 
license gives you the right to use the software on a single CPU or 
equipment configuration and the right to copy this software for use on 
any CPU or equipment configuration on a local area network that requires 
access to a PrintServer 20, PrintServer 40 or PrintServer 40 Plus.  This 
includes a VAXcluster system.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available.  For more information on 
these or other services, please contact your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty 
Addendum of this SPD. 

    The DIGITAL Logo is a registered trademark of Digital Equipement 
    Corporation.
    
    PrintServer, PrintServer 20, PrintServer 40 and PrintServer 40 Plus 
    are registered trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.
    
    VAX, VMS, MicroVMS, MicroVAX, VAXstation, VAXserver, and DECnet-VAX 
    are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

