DECnet/SNA Remote Job Entry, Version 1.4                   SPD 26.85.04

DESCRIPTION                                                
                                                                    
DECnet/SNA VMS Remote Job Entry (RJE) is a layered software product that 
allows suitably configured VMS systems within a DECnet network to function 
as an SNA/RJE workstation or group of workstations that can transmit batch 
jobs to an IBM (R) host and receive job output.  The VMS system user can 
prepare batch jobs in files, submit the jobs, and obtain the job output. 
Access to the IBM SNA host environment is via the DECnet/SNA Gateway or 
VMS/SNA software. 

By using batch interaction with the IBM host system, RJE can be used to 
submit data that can be used for periodic update of databases and other 
applications.  Easily modified translation tables resident in either the 
DECnet/SNA Gateway or VMS/SNA convert ASCII code to a subset of IBM 
multi-national EBCDIC for transmission to the IBM host, and from EBCDIC to 
ASCII on reception of job output. 

Features

The following are some of the features of RJE:

oo   Each workstation includes a console interface that an operator can use 
    to communicate with the Job Entry System in the IBM host.

oo   RJE can support record sizes of up to 245 characters.

oo   RJE supports data compression on reader streams and data decompression 
    on printer and punch streams.

oo   The RJE Server can be run on the VMS system to increase throughput of 
    the DECnet/SNA Gateway.

oo   ASCII to EBCDIC translation is transparent to the user but can be 
    inhibited with     /NOTRANSLATE qualifier on the ASSIGN command.

Sending Jobs to the IBM Host

Workstation users submit jobs to VMS queues.  The workstation transmits the 
queued jobs to the IBM host over the input streams associated with a queue.

This queuing technique makes it possible for many RJE users to submit jobs 
at the same time and to do so even if the workstation is inactive.  When 
the operator sets the workstation on, the workstation transmits all the 
jobs in its queues.  For each submitted job, the user specifies one or more 
files containing JCL (Job Control Language) statements, data, or programs.

Receiving Job Output

The IBM host returns job output to a workstation over various output 
streams.  Each IBM output stream will have a VMS directory assigned to it.   
As output from jobs is received on an output stream, it is assigned a file 
name identical to the name given to the job as it is executed in the IBM 
system (normally names are specified by user supplied JCL).  This mechanism 
allows easy identification of a particular job when several users share the 
same job stream.  In the DECnet/SNA Gateway environment, job output may be 
directed to a system on the DECnet network other than the initiating 
system.  

Managing the Workstation

VMS users with the required privilege can issue a set of restricted 
commands to manage the workstation.  These commands allow the user to 
initialize and control the workstation, and to communicate interactively 
with the IBM batch subsystem.  The following functions are available:

oo   Set the workstation ON and OFF

oo   Stop the transmission of a job

oo   Collect logging information in a disk file

oo   Display status

oo   Obtain on-line help information

Specifying a Server

When using a DECnet/SNA Gateway, there is an option of using the RJEServer 
in the DECnet/SNA Gateway (default) or running the RJEServer on a VMS node. 
By running the RJEServer on a VMS node, you can utilize idle VMS resources 
and increase throughput of your DECnet/SNA Gateway. 

INSTALLATION

For RJE to be DIGITAL supported, the customer must have a DIGITAL supported 
DECnet/SNA Gateway or VMS/SNA configuration.  To have a DIGITAL supported 
DECnet/SNA Gateway configuration, purchase of the Gateway 
Orientation/Installation Service is REQUIRED in conjunction with the 
customer's first purchase of the DECnet/SNA Gateway. Refer to the 
DECnet/SNA Gateway SPDs (SPD 30.15.xx, SPD 29.C6.xx, SPD 29.76.xx) for 
further details.

To have a DIGITAL supported VMS/SNA configuration, purchase of the VMS/SNA 
Orientation/Installation Service is REQUIRED in conjunction with the 
customer's first purchase of VMS/SNA. Refer to the VMS/SNA Software Product 
Description (SPD 27.01.xx) for further details.

Only experienced customers should attempt installation of this product. 
DIGITAL recommends that all other customers purchase DIGITAL's Installation 
Services.  These services provide for installation of the software product 
by an experienced DIGITAL Software Specialist.

Customer Responsibilities

Before DIGITAL installation of the software the customer must:

oo   Have previously installed all requisite hardware including terminals.

oo   Obtain, install, and demonstrate as operational any modems and other 
    equipment and facilities necessary to interface to DIGITAL's 
    communications equipment.

oo   Demonstrate equivalence of operation for modems other than Bell System 
    201C, 208A or 209A, AT&T 2596 or 2556, Dataphone II (2096A, DIGITAL 
    2500, or equivalent) type modems or, in Europe, PTT approved modems.

oo   Have generated, to DIGITAL's satisfaction, any necessary IBM host 
    software that will be communicating with RJE and the DECnet/SNA Gateway 
    or VMS/SNA.

oo   Make available for a reasonable period of time, as mutually agreed by 
    DIGITAL and the customer, all hardware, communications facilities, and 
    terminals that are to be used during installation.

Delays caused by any failure to meet these responsibilities will be charged 
at the prevailing rate for time and materials.

Successful use of this product requires that:

oo   The customer must be prepared to work with both DIGITAL and IBM systems 
    personnel to coordinate the pre-installation activities.

oo   The customer should be capable of modifying IBM component generation 
    parameters to support the RJE software and either the DECnet/SNA 
    Gateway or VMS/SNA.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 26.85.04-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

In a DECnet/SNA Gateway Environment:

oo   VMS Operating System 

oo   DECnet-VAX

In a VMS/SNA Environment:

oo   VMS Operating System

oo   VMS/SNA 

The DECnet/SNA VMS Remote Job Entry software requires one of the following:

oo   DECnet/SNA Gateway-CT

oo   DECnet/SNA Gateway-ST

oo   DECnet/SNA Gateway

oo   VMS/SNA

*   Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 26.85.04-x) for availability 
    and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-453A*-**
Software Media: QA-453A*-**
Software Documentation QA-453AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-453A*-**

*   Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available 
    licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License 
Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact 
your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD.

WARRANTY LIMITATIONS

IBM Supported Configurations

This software has been tested and is warranted against IBM System/370 
(includes 30xx and 43xx series) class processor systems configured with the 
following IBM software.  While this software may function correctly with 
other IBM software and equipment, and with software other than that 
supported by IBM, DIGITAL cannot offer its standard warranty for this 
software unless it has been tested with such equipment and software 
configurations.

The following list shows the configurations with which the software has 
been tested and is warranted.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT                       VERSION        RELEASE

 JES2 MVS/SP-JES2                         1             3.3
                                          1             3.4
                                          1             3.5
                                          1             3.6
                                          2             2.0

 JES3 MVS/SP-JES3                         1             3.3
                                          1             3.4
                                          1             3.5
                                          1             3.6
                                          2             2.0

 VSE/SP:                                  2             1.6

 VSE/Power                                2             2.0

Please refer to the DECnet/SNA Gateway Software Product Description (SPD 
30.15.xx, SPD 29.76.xx, or SPD 29.C6.xx) or the VMS/SNA Software Product 
Description (SPD 27.01.xx) for additional information on supported IBM 
operating systems, access methods and communications front end software.

